# Examples
Repository for PRODUCTS representing skills, expertise and experiences

I possess a master of science/agriculture degree in soil science with secondary emphasis in crop ecology from the University of Minnesota (1995), and bachelor’s degree in agronomy and pest management from Iowa State University (1982).  My career interests and expertise center on soil health and include cropping systems agronomy, plant nutrition, soil and water conservation and water quality.  My expertise with soil science and agronomy spans hill-side and subsistence farming in Central America and Africa to large-scale farming systems in the United States, Canada and Argentina.  I have over thirty years of combined experience in production agriculture, private industry, extension, research, and international agriculture.  This includes experience with irrigated and rain-fed cereal and pulse grains, maize, sorghum, rice, soybean, sunflower and potato, and various horticultural crops including sweet peas, sweet corn, carnations, pecans, citrus, cucurbits, pepper and tomato.  
As Regional Extension Agronomist with Washington State University (WSU) and Extension educator with Texas A&M University System, I was effective at working in teams, and formed collaborations with NRCS Conservationists, pesticide and fertilizer industry representatives, state pesticide regulators, farmers, graduate and undergraduate students, and volunteers. While serving with Extension I developed and delivered technical lectures on soil health and water conservation for cereal and pulse grain producers; row-crop farmers, and small-scale cow-calf producers. I have significant expertise organizing, delivering and interpreting adult education programs ranging in size from pesticide applicator recertification training and IPM programs in auditoriums with several hundred attendees to small classrooms for topic-specific landholder training sessions.  I also have over fifteen years of combined agronomic research experience investigating water use by cover crops, crop residue management practices on nutrient cycling and water storage, variety adaptability, seeding rates, and soil fertility and plant nutrition.  
I have authored technical reports, white papers, training guides and extension publications. I have also conceptualized and developed multiple interactive computer-based planning and decision tools.  For example, I created an on-line ag-lime characterization and application rate evaluation tool, and devised algorithms to optimize spatially variable fertilizer blends for precision agriculture applications and guided a team of computer programmers who converted my concept into a GIS application. I have also created numerous project-specific interactive applications and self-guided teaching tools in MS Excel. For example, pesticide sprayer calibration and pesticide use record, compost feedstock blend optimizer, and cropping systems adaptation guide based on historical climate data that drives phenology and evapotranspiration models.
